---
layout: post
author: elliott
categories: how-to

title: Python Glossary
---

The below is a reference of Python- and programming-related terms.  It's been modified from the one [in our textbook](http://interactivepython.org/runestone/static/thinkcspy/GeneralIntro/introduction.html#glossary).


**activecode**
A unique interpreter environment that allows Python to be executed from within a web browser.  Our textbook and our class site use activecode to make runnable Python.

**algorithm**
A general step by step process for solving a problem.

**bug**
An error in a program.

**byte code**
An intermediate language between source code and object code. Many modern languages first compile source code into byte code and then interpret the byte code with a program called a virtual machine.

**codelens**
An interactive environment that allows the user to control the step by step execution of a Python program

**comment**
Information in a program that is meant for other programmers (or anyone reading the source code) and has no effect on the execution of the program.  In Python, comments are written after `#`:

```python
# This is a comment

print("This is code") # Comments can happen here too
```

**compile**
To translate a program written in a high-level language into a low-level language all at once, in preparation for later execution.

**debugging**
The process of finding and removing any of the three kinds of programming errors.  Read more about debugging [in our textbook here](http://interactivepython.org/runestone/static/thinkcspy/Debugging/debugIntro.html).

**exception**
Another name for a runtime error.

**executable**
Another name for object code that is ready to be executed.

**formal language**
Any one of the languages that people have designed for specific purposes, such as representing mathematical ideas or computer programs; all programming languages are formal languages.

**function**
A function is a bit of reusable code that can be **called** after being defined.  Functions can be defined by you in your code or they can be defined in **libraries** that can be **imported**.

**high-level language**
A programming language like Python that is designed to be easy for humans to read and write.

**import**
You'll often see `import` statements at the top of a bit of code.  These import **libraries** of pre-written code.  Libraries is a general term; in Python, these are also called **modules**

**interpret**
To execute a program in a high-level language by translating it one line at a time.

**libraries**
Libraries are large collections of pre-written code designed to be **imported**.

**low-level language**
A programming language that is designed to be easy for a computer to execute; also called machine language or assembly language.

**modules**
This is Python's word for **libraries**

**natural language**
Any one of the languages that people speak that evolved naturally.

**object code**
The output of the compiler after it translates the program.

**parse**
To examine a program and analyze the syntactic structure.

**portability**
A property of a program that can run on more than one kind of computer.

**print function**
A function used in a program or script that causes the Python interpreter to display a value on its output device.

**problem solving**
The process of formulating a problem, finding a solution, and expressing the solution.

**program**
A sequence of instructions that specifies to a computer actions and computations to be performed.

**programming language**
A formal notation for representing solutions.

**Python shell**
An interactive user interface to the Python interpreter. The user of a Python shell types commands at the prompt (>>>), and presses the return key to send these commands immediately to the interpreter for processing.

**runtime error**
An error that does not occur until the program has started to execute but that prevents the program from continuing.

**semantic error**
An error in a program that makes it do something other than what the programmer intended.

**semantics**
The meaning of a program.

**shell mode**
A style of using Python where we type expressions at the command prompt, and the results are shown immediately. Contrast with source code, and see the entry under Python shell.

**source code**
A program, stored in a file, in a high-level language before being compiled or interpreted.

**syntax**
The structure of a program.  Python has very light syntax compared to other languages.  It is relatively unique in that indentation plays a role in syntax.

**syntax error**
An error in a program that makes it impossible to parse — and therefore impossible to interpret.

**token**
One of the basic elements of the syntactic structure of a program, analogous to a word in a natural language.