---
layout: post
author: elliott
title: Codingbat.com exercises Part 2
date: 2014-02-16 11:59pm
categories: exercise
---

Note you have two extra days for this assignment.  Get started early- you will likely need the extra time.  Several of these problems are tricky!  Remember to use your resources: your classmates, our community, the Internet, and Grant and I.

## Codingbat Test-driven learning

Codingbat is like batting practice for coding.  There are small little problems with several tests listed over on the side.  As you write and run the program you'll see more and more of the tests turn green.  This mimics the programming technique of [Test Driven Development](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Test-driven_development) where the behavior of a program is specified at the beginning by writing tests.

Sign in to Codingbat.com using the free Mozilla Persona service so you can save and track your progress.

As you work through these problems, try some of the strategies in our reading on [Debugging](http://interactivepython.org/runestone/static/thinkcspy/Debugging/debugIntro.html).

## What to turn in

* **Complete** _Warmup 2_, _Lists 2_, _Strings 2_, _Logic 2_  
* **Choose** three exercises that you found most interesting and write *a single post* about why you liked them, or why they were hard.  Include the code you used to solve the problem.  
* Include **one screenshot each of the sections** once you've completed them. http://codingbat.com/python/Warmup-1 will have checkmarks when you complete its exercises. We want to see the checkmarks **and your username when logged in**.
* Submit a well-formatted pull request with your working post and a link to your github.io site
